if you were trapped in the house hunted
down by a blind special forces killer
and you can't make a sound what would you do
the characters in this movie thought robbing
a blind man would be an easy job only for it
to turn into a brutal trap that takes a shocking
turn towards the end i'm going to break down the
mistakes made what you should do and explain
how to beat the blind soldier in don't breathe
rocky is a small-time burglar who's trying to make
as much money as she can to leave detroit and head
to california with her sister she finds out from
her partner there's a house in skid row where a
veteran lives alone and a whole lot of cash is
sitting around inside she doesn't have a clue
that this will be the last robbery of her life
the burglars scattered the veterans neighborhood
and spot him outside of walking his dog and they
notice he has a cane this man is blind as a bat
the job appears have gotten a whole lot easier
but if they took him more seriously they would
have seen a few red flags they noticed the cane
but not that he was extremely fit for his age that
means he's exercising inactive this guy is a war
veteran with a killer instinct and a body to match
he probably even sleeps with a gun and his
rottweiler already has it in for you so
maybe not as easy as they all think later that
night the team begins their robbery they slip
the guard dog some sedatives but find that the
front door has several locks they can't open
wait this doesn't make sense they have the key for
the man's home security company why would he have
extra locks so far they've been smart about
this thorough research 24-hour recording of
neighborhood activity but this is a bad start four
locks is a sign that he's not going to make things
easy for you especially since he's a military man
i would bring brass knuckles or other self-defense
weapons so that we have a better chance at a
confrontation nothing they try works the side into
the house is locked shut and so is the cellar door
but rocky spots a window above them and clambers
of the side she breaks in through the bathroom
window and sneaks as fast as she can to shut off
the burglar alarm before it goes off this girl
knows what she's doing the problem is he's blind
not deaf cracking glass of a rock is noisy and
stomping around a boots is going to wake him up
the blind developed enhanced hearing and the
ability to track movement also the statistical
majority of u.s soldiers experienced terrible
insomnia and he just lost his daughter he would
definitely be a light sleeper considering who
they're up against being silent here could save
you for this they could have used duct tape it
pads the sound it keeps most of the glass shards
intact and while taking your shoes off is smart
it's another loose end with everyone inside they
begin searching the house for the cash one of the
guys enters the veteran's bedroom where he's about
to fill it with sleeping gas the soldier suddenly
gets up it's time to acknowledge that this man is
crazy alert just puncturing a plastic bottle wakes
him up if that doesn't change your strategy then
you might as well write your will and testament
but it's a lot of money if you've gone this far
i wouldn't call it quits just yet what you should
do now is lock him in this could be done by tying
the knob to a heavy piece of furniture or using
a specialized security bar to force it shut
none of them have found any money but they
do find this door with some crazy locks on it
they try forcing an open of a pry bar and when
that doesn't work one of the burglars pulls out
a gun and shoots the lock off alex here begins
to realize this can only end badly for them
so far they broke into his house damaged his
property and brought a gun into the home of a
veteran with superior skill and knowledge
and firearms castle law dictates this guy
could defend his home and if you think shooting
into a plastic bottle is going to keep it quiet
you're dead wrong the best homemade silencer would
be a modified oil filter it might be bulky but
it's going to do the job alex decides enough is
enough and leaves and he's the only one thinking
straight because things are about to go terribly
wrong as a blind man suddenly appears behind them
and they're definitely underestimating how much
this golf war vet can do the burglar tells him
he just stumbled and drunk but the vet steps
on the broken bolt lock and knows exactly what
it is he threatens him with his gun shooting a
warning shot which alerts alex outside he moves in
grabs the gun and disarms it it's officially
time to freak out they're completely outmatched
he slammed the gun to his neck asking
one simple question who else is with you
in this moment we need to take stock of some
important facts you won't overpower him you
can't sneak up on him you can't find the money
and there's no way to save your friend if you're
the first to bolt you might get away heartless
i know but that's the life of a criminal he will
definitely shoot if he hears you running so i'd
throw something as a diversion stay low to the
ground and sprint for the door if i'm still alive
i can make new friends and never mention this to
anyone instead they all panic in solidarity the
burglar tells him that he came alone and gets
promptly shot horrified rocky hides herself in a
closet as alex comes back in and finds the blind
guy he's locking things down literally locking
the door shut and boarding up the broken window
this is terrifying but he has a shot here the
gun is near the sink within arm's reach i would
grab it and shoot him dead wipe the prince and
place it in the hands of my dead friend that's
at least what i'd like to do but i'm way too much
of a coward for that let's just close our eyes and
hope this all goes away from the closet rocky sees
the veteran open as safe and input the pin code
a simple four digit combo that's going to pay off
big alex finds her and together they discover that
into the safe are bundles of cash now they got
what they came for but how are they going to leave
remembering that there is a storm seller outside
they head for the door only to find the veteran
blocking their only escape plan he begins to drag
the dead body out but as they slowly back away
he hears the floorboard wood floors are impossible
to beat it's too late for wd-40 your only option
is to cover your mouth and stay breathless and
emotionless until he leaves the room that's
what i would do but the truth is it might get me
killed just as quickly when your heart is racing
it's using up your body's oxygen reserves making
it very difficult to hold your breath for long
the right strategy is to breathe through your
mouth slowly as it's less noisy because it's
a wider air passage the burglar's phone goes
off and he shoots at it it's a distraction that
saves their life if i'm seeing this i'm losing
all hope his aim was incredible for a blind man
he definitely makes running for an exit a bad
strategy he continues carrying the body out of
the room giving them the chance to find a way out
but they're about to find a horrifying surprise
awaiting them in the basement they can barely see
anything they're stumbling around with no accident
in sight when out of nowhere a woman leaps at
them she's gagged tied up and chained to a wall
this just got way more intense killing an art to
burglar is one thing but this is insane they now
understand who they're dealing with a psycho
killer who plays by his own rules and upstairs
he just figured out that these guys are still in
the house i told you those shoes were a bad idea
rocky goes to rescue her and realizes that she's
the girl who killed the blind man's daughter this
is his revenge she directs them to a shape and
lucky for them to use the same combo inside they
find keys and use them to free her not realizing
this kind of act was their biggest mistake of the
night now it's good to help people but right now
it's not smart escape gets a lot harder with three
people let alone two and it's strange they never
think to take off her gag she might have told us
about the bell she's rigged with and from there
an ambush can be planned by luring him down with
it as long as we stay silent we have a chance to
knock him out and lock him in but let's not kid
ourselves this is a gamble because if you have to
fight him you've already lost the cellar door gets
unlocked and the man starts firing grazing alex
shooting at rocky as she breaks her phone and
accidentally killing the girl they were trying to
rescue taking cover they retreat into the basement
the man cautiously steps down and slips in blood
realizing the woman is dead and begins crying
this is not what you'd expect if she killed his
daughter there might be more to this than it seems
they watch in the shadows as the blind man
locks the door and breaks the key in the hole
guaranteeing no escape the burglar's only plan
left is to make a break for the other room and
get to the front door but suddenly all the lights
in the basement go off it's pitch black and they
have to reach out to find their way around while
the veteran is literally sprinting through the
dark corridors it's the perfect death trap for
a blind man he starts firing at them and taking
cover the two split up as they try to navigate the
basement rocky moves along a shelf and has no idea
that she's about to bump into the veteran she's
practically breathing on him and is only saved
by alex's calls luring the blind man towards
him the veteran somehow finds alex and grabs
him shoving a gun against his head but realizing
the gun is empty he starts strangling him luckily
he's able to knock a shelf onto the veteran before
running away to get the girl we've lost her single
advantage over him sight how do we escape you can
start by confirming where he is draw him in with a
noise and hide on a lower shelf to hear him walk
by effectively mapping part of the room for you
to run in the opposite direction he has the whole
place memorized but he will follow what he hears
once he's distracted make your way towards
the light quickly they scramble to get out
of the basement and jam the doors shut but find
themselves staring down a massive rottweiler rocky
goes to unlock the front door while alex tries
his best to keep the dog calm he nearly succeeds
until the veteran tries to break down the basement
door sending the dog into attack mode and forcing
them upstairs they barricade themselves in one of
the bedrooms and try to escape through the windows
but they're barred it's a bad situation that only
gets worse as a veteran starts breaking through
the door alex suggests pressing the panic button
on his remote making the point that the cops will
overlook their robbery when they discover that
this man is a murdering psychopath and he's right
this lets them live but not keep the
cash something rocky isn't willing to do
the vet is still pushing through and they're
running out of time but they suddenly spot an air
vent above that's big enough for one of them to
slip through rocky squeezes into the crawl space
just as the dog rams alex knocking him out of the
window and on the skylight below as if that wasn't
enough the psycho dog then climbs its way into the
shaft and makes its way towards rocky to finish
the job with no other option she throws herself
down the shaft head first slamming into the ground
alex is dangerously suspended on the skylight he
tries rolling slowly as the glass cracks under him
but looks up only to see the blind man shoot the
glass holding him up sending him falling to the
ground hurt from the fall he walks through the
house trying to use his remote to activate the
burglar alarm now it's risky but we now have an
open path outside i might have tried going back
out to the skylight we'd be wearing gloves so we
wouldn't get cut too badly and judging by their
height it's possible to jump up to but it's too
late because the blind man finds him first and
fires his revolver forcing him to hide in this
laundry room right next to his friend's corpse
the veteran tracks into the room but gets ambushed
and disarmed but he should have gone straight for
his head because he grabs alex who quickly gets
overpowered and beats the snot out of him but
the washing machines turn on disorienting the man
alex takes his chance and reaches for the gun on
the floor now if i was in this situation with my
honed abilities as a coward i would have run out
of the door but kicked the gun out with me get out
of the closed space because it forces you to fight
him and you will win them the veteran manages to
turn off the washing machines and stop alex from
grabbing the gun throwing punch after punch before
finishing the burglar off with garden shears
recovering from her fall rocky struggles
to reach the end of the ventilation shaft
that leads straight out of the house she's able
to turn herself around and kick out the grate but
it's too late she's ripped out of the crawl space
by the veteran and gets knocked out she wakes up
locked into the same harness as the woman before
her the veteran very clearly tells her he won't
let her go after what she's done and it tends
to keep her as a replacement for what exactly
a baby maker he was using the woman to make a new
daughter for him to replace the one she had killed
rocky is gonna stay with him for the next nine
months it's almost impossible to escape from
this unless you're prepared in advance handcuffs
have a universal one-fits-all lock if you're a
criminal they'll likely come in handy you can tuck
it in your waistband to access when you're cuffed
it's looking hopeless for her the blind man has
won and there's nothing she can do but upstairs
alex gets up from the floor he's still alive
because the other burglar's body was stabbed
instead of his now he has his best chance to
escape with some quick thinking he's able to
trick and lock the dog inside the laundry room
giving him time to unlock and open the front door
he needs to leave it's not about money anymore
this is pure survival if both of you are caught
it won't help anyone he's had the drop on you at
every turn and without even being able to see get
out and get help back in the basement the veteran
disposes of the girl's corpse and hoists up rocky
to prepare her for what's to come now he's not
going to force itself on her oh no it's way worse
he grabs his bottle of frozen goo from a fridge
gets it nice and warm and fills a turkey baster
with it it's an absolutely horrifying moment for
rocky who tries to rip her way out of the harness
but there's no escape this is going to happen just
as she's given up all hope blood splatters on her
face and the blimey gets knocked away by alex he
came back to set her free taking the cuffs off and
placing them on him she swears that she'll get the
veteran arrested but alex points out that it would
end badly they've broken into his house stolen his
money and assaulted him it would be child's play
for the guy to turn the cops against them they
have to let him go if they want to get away it
appears to be over but just as they make it back
upstairs and open the front door alex gets killed
by the blind man leaving rocky the sole survivor
who makes it out of the house it seems like she's
safe but then his dog comes bolting out of the
house you can't outrun a rottweiler it's not going
to happen if you're being chased by a dog standing
still and slowly walking away will usually work in
this situation but this dog might be related
to cujo so i can't blame her for running but
she might have had a better chance to run around
the back of the house where there's more cover
and more obstacles to put as much between
yourself and its crazy canine as you can
it chases her all the way back to her car and
snags a hold of the money bag leaving her stuck
inside did that make matters worse she dropped
the money outside the car the keys are nowhere
to be found she's trapped but she comes up with an
ingenious plan that would have made macgyver proud
she opens up the trunk to lure the dog inside and
then yanks on the rope she attached to trap him in
while at the same time pushing the passenger seats
back into place effectively caging the dog at
least for a moment before it rips its way out man
this dog has no chill it gets so close that it's
almost able to bite her and this gives her the
chance to hook the release latch onto the dog's
collar pulling it back and giving her the space to
get out and grab the bag now if only she was a bit
more careful she would have gotten away drag back
to the house and drop right next to alex's corpse
it's utterly hopeless but maybe she's got one last
trick up her sleeve she grabs alex's remote and
activates the panic button alarms start blaring
throughout the house and overwhelm the veteran
rocky picks up a pry bar and blitzes the blind man
hitting him as she cleverly takes advantage of his
confusion but just as she's about to land one more
blow the alarm shuts off the veteran hears the
floorboard creek behind him and he turns but he's
too slow on the draw and gets sent flying knocked
into the basement floor where his gun goes off
shooting a leaky hole to himself during the fall
she takes a breath as if for the first time all
night with the money in hand at the veteran dead
rocky leaves the house just in time before
the police arrive later as she and her sister
are waiting at a train station she sees a news
report about the robbery there's no mention of
her or any money being stolen but the veteran is
still alive covering the hospital he hasn't told
anyone about what really happened but who
knows what he'll do once he's finally out
you